Restructure RFC Process text (#1)
TimWolla/policies: feature-proposals.rst

whether the secondary vote is plurality or Single-Transferrable Vote, how ties will be handled,
whether it is a 2/3 majority Yes/No or a 50% threshold, and any other pertinent information
to ensure the implications of the secondary vote are clearly understood.

=================
Voting procedure
=================

The actual start of the vote MUST be announced on the mailing list in a separate
thread with a ``[VOTE]`` prefix followed by the RFC title as the Subject.

The voting announcement email MUST include:

- A link to the Wiki page of the RFC.
- A link to the discussion thread.
- A notice if there are multiple votes to cast, as each requires a separate form submission.
- The exact date and time the vote will end, with minute precision and timezone.

The end of the vote MUST additionally be specified in the voting widget on the
RFC so that it will auto-close at the specified timestamp.

The link to the mailing list archives of the voting thread MUST be added to
the RFC as soon as possible and no later than the announcement of the results of the vote.

The voting period MUST be at least two weeks (336 hours), but MAY be up to

> four weeks if necessary to avoid conflict with well-known holiday periods.

Author: I introduced a 4 week cap here, as it seems prudent to not allow a 9 month vote or something.

either accepted or declined, there MUST NOT be any further major or minor
changes to the RFC text and making editorial changes SHOULD be avoided for the
avoidance of doubt. The voting details (such as the voting period or interpretation
of secondary votes) MUST NOT be changed after the vote opened.

The voting period MAY be canceled within the first 2 days (48 hours) in case
of severe issues with the RFC. Canceling a vote is treated as a Major change thus
triggers a new cooldown period. The title of all voting widgets MUST be
changed to invalidate any votes that have been cast (e.g. by adding the suffix “(Restart)”).

=======
Errata
=======

If issues with an accepted RFC are noticed during implementation, an errata
section explaining the necessary changes SHOULD be added.

Should the necessary changes significantly impact the design, it MAY be
appropriate to start a follow-up discussion thread, or possibly a follow-up RFC.
At minimum, author(s) SHOULD send a notification message to the original
discussion thread describing the change.

If there is dispute as to whether a post-vote change requires a follow-up
discussion of its own, an RFC and vote of its own, or neither, the final

> decision rests with the Release Managers.

Author: This section is new, but I believe important to include.

case the original RFC's title is commonly suffixed with ``v2`` to indicate the
relationship with the original RFC.

A proposal or proposal concept MAY be discussed informally on the list prior to
an official initiation post. In many cases that is encouraged to get a sense of
how well received a proposal would be. However, that does not count toward the
Discussion Phase.

******************
 Discussion Phase
******************

In the Discussion Phase, the community may review, discuss, and offer
suggestions for improving the RFC, as extensive or minimalist as they see fit.
However, unrelated discussions that spin off to discuss other, related topics
SHOULD be moved to their own email threads to minimize noise.

Types of changes
================

> The author(s) of the RFC MAY make changes to the proposal at any time during the

Reviewer: Would always use the plural form in the interest of simplicity. The “Proposal Initiation” section already uses plural only and a single author is just a special case of an arbitrary number of authors:

```suggestion
The authors of the RFC MAY make changes to the proposal at any time during the
```

Same applies below.

> discussion. Changes broadly fall into one of three categories:

Reviewer: I'm stumbling over the “broadly”, because it implies that there are more categories. Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
discussion. The significance of changes is defined with three categories:
```

or “extent” or another word?

Author: I think significance is more accurate here.  A change that adds 15 new examples but doesn't change any semantics would be an "extensive" change, but not as significant as a 4 line change that alters the syntax.

-  **Major changes** to the RFC text include any changes that would lead to a
   change in the implementation, particularly any changes to the proposed
   semantics or syntax, updating the API stub. It also includes adding, changing
   or removing any voting widget.

> -  **Minor** changes to the RFC text include adding new examples, updating

Reviewer: Formatting inconsistency:
```suggestion
-  **Minor changes** to the RFC text include adding new examples, updating
```

   existing examples, adding additional explanation or clarification, or any
   other changes that are not purely editorial.

-  **Editorial changes** to the RFC text include non-substantive changes, such
   as spelling, typos, changing section labels, bug fixes to existing code

>    examples, small rewordings of descriptions, and so forth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   as spelling, typos, changing section labels, small rewordings of descriptions, and so forth.
```
Wouldn't include “bug fixes” here, because fixing a bug could result in someone realizing they misunderstood the proposal when seeing the fixed code, particularly when the description and the example code was previously out of sync (that's why “minor changes” includes “updating existing examples”).

Obvious bugs such as a missing semicolon would qualify under the “typo” rule.

in response to that email. If a series of changes are included together, the
whole announcement belongs to the highest level of any of the involved changes.
The initial proposal of the RFC is considered a Major change announcement.

Cooldown period
===============

Both Major and Minor change announcements trigger a "cooldown period" to allow
for sufficient discussion of the related changes. During the cooldown period, no
vote may be called. Editorial changes do not trigger a cooldown period.

-  The cooldown after a Major change announcement is 2 weeks (336 hours).
-  The cooldown after a Minor announcement is 1 week (168 hours).

By implication, it means the minimum discussion period for any RFC is 2 weeks,
assuming no changes are made after the initial proposal.

Cooldowns overlap, so if a Major change is announced, and 3 days later a Minor
change is announced, the vote may be called 11 days (14 - 3) later.

Discussion lifetime
===================

The discussion is not required to go to a vote at any particular point. The
author(s) MAY continue the discussion as long as they wish. The author(s) SHOULD

> be mindful of holiday periods or in cases of significant activity on the mailing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be mindful of holiday periods or periods of significant activity on the mailing
```
The “in” shouldn't be there I think. And “periods” sounds better than “cases” with the rephrased context.

list to allow everyone to catch up with the discussion.

> In order to keep RFCs "fresh," their discussion threads must have a minimum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to keep RFCs "fresh", their discussion threads must have a minimum
```

Author: This one is complicated. :smile: Standard (American) English says to always put the comma inside the quotes, even if that's technically modifying the quote.  Common colloquial Internet English frequently puts the comma on the outside in some cases.  That is still technically incorrect according to most published standards, so for instance publishers will insist on the inside-quote version.  I went with the more "proper" here, since this is a formal document.

Reviewer: It looks like a typo :see_no_evil:

level of activity. Any message to the discussion thread from anyone other than
an Intent to Vote is sufficient to keep the RFC active. Once an RFC discussion
goes inactive, any new post will "reactivate" the discussion and trigger a new

> cooldown period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
level of activity. Any message to the discussion thread from any participant 
(excluding “Intent to Vote” messages) is sufficient to keep the RFC active. Once an RFC discussion
goes inactive, any new post will "reactivate" the discussion and trigger a new
cooldown period.
```

-  If it has been 6 weeks since the last message, the cooldown is 1 week (168
   hours).
-  If it has been 3 months since the last message, the cooldown is 2 week (336
   hours).

**************
 Voting Phase
**************

Voting prerequisites
====================

Prior to starting a vote, an RFC author MUST post an Intent to Vote message to

> the discussion thread. The post MUST be made at least two days and no more than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the discussion thread. The post MUST be made at least two days (48 hours) and no more than
```

1 week (168 hours) before the vote is officially opened. Any feedback posted
after the Intent to Vote message is sent SHOULD be treated the same as if it had
been sent earlier, and any Major or Minor changes that result MUST trigger a new

> cooldown period, canceling the Intent to Vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
been sent earlier, and any Major or Minor changes made as a result of the ongoing discussion MUST trigger a new
cooldown period, canceling the Intent to Vote.
```
Spelling this out a little more explicitly.

Author: It's not the "ongoing discussion" per se here, but the new last-minute comments.  I'll tweak.

> An RFC author MAY start a vote at any time, provided that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An RFC author MAY start a vote at any time, provided that all the following conditions hold:
```
To make it explicit that it's “and”, not “or”. Alternatively they could all be chained with “, and”.

-  There is no cooldown period still active.

-  The discussion thread is not inactive.

> -  The author has posted an intent to open the vote at least 48 hours prior, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The author has posted an intent to open the vote at least 2 days prior, and
```

   no more than one week prior.

-  There is no ongoing relevant and substantive discussion still happening in
   the thread. The author(s) may determine what qualifies as relevant and
   substantive, but SHOULD be liberal in interpreting that.

All voting widgets on the RFC MUST include all pertinent details for that vote, as

> described in the "Required Majority" section below.

Reviewer: Can we find another word for “pertinent”? I needed to look up that one (though it was clear from context), so it might be something that is not familiar with non-native speakers.

Author: "relevant" is close enough, so I'll switch to that.

Voting procedure
================

The actual start of the vote MUST be announced on the mailing list in a separate
thread with a ``[VOTE]`` prefix followed by the RFC title as the Subject.

The voting announcement email MUST include:

-  A link to the Wiki page of the RFC.
-  A link to the discussion thread.
-  A notice if there are multiple votes to cast, as each requires a separate
   form submission.
-  The exact date and time the vote will end, with minute precision and
   timezone.

The end of the vote MUST additionally be specified in the voting widget on the
RFC so that it will auto-close at the specified timestamp.

The link to the mailing list archives of the voting thread MUST be added to the
RFC as soon as possible and no later than the announcement of the results of the
vote.

The voting period MUST be at least two weeks (336 hours), but MAY be up to four

> weeks if necessary to avoid conflict with well-known holiday periods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The voting period MUST be at least two weeks (336 hours), but MAY be up to four
weeks (e.g. to avoid conflicts with well-known holiday periods).
```
Extending the vote from two weeks should not be guarded by holiday periods. Some folks generally round to the “next midnight” or similar.

Due to the significance of the end-of-year holidays for a majority of the world,
the voting period MUST NOT start and MUST NOT end in the period between
December, 17th 00:00 UTC and January, 10th 00:00 UTC.

After the voting period has started, including after the vote closed and the RFC

> is either accepted or declined, there MUST NOT be any further major or minor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is either accepted or declined, there MUST NOT be any further Major or Minor
```

You capitalized these elsewhere.

   other changes that are not purely editorial.

-  **Editorial changes** to the RFC text include non-substantive changes, such
   as spelling, typos, changing section labels, small rewordings of descriptions,
   and so forth.

If it is unclear what level a change belongs in, the authors SHOULD assume the
higher one.

Major and minor changes MUST be announced in the official discussion thread,
either in a dedicated email summarizing a list of changes or in a reply to
another email that clearly indicates that changes to the RFC text have been made
in response to that email. If a series of changes are included together, the
whole announcement belongs to the highest level of any of the involved changes.
The initial proposal of the RFC is considered a Major change announcement.

Cooldown period
===============

Both Major and Minor change announcements trigger a "cooldown period" to allow
for sufficient discussion of the related changes. During the cooldown period, no
vote may be called. Editorial changes do not trigger a cooldown period.

-  The cooldown after a Major change announcement is 14 days.
-  The cooldown after a Minor announcement is 7 days.

> By implication, it means the minimum discussion period for any RFC is 2 weeks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By implication, it means the minimum discussion period for any RFC is 14 days,
```

Cooldowns overlap, so if a Major change is announced, and 3 days later a Minor
change is announced, the vote may be called 11 days (14 - 3) later.

Discussion lifetime
===================

The discussion is not required to go to a vote at any particular point. The
authors MAY continue the discussion as long as they wish. The authors SHOULD
be mindful of holiday periods or periods of significant activity on the mailing
list to allow everyone to catch up with the discussion.

In order to keep RFCs "fresh," their discussion threads must have a minimum
level of activity. Any message to the discussion thread from any participant 
(excluding “Intent to Vote” messages) is sufficient to keep the RFC active. Once an RFC discussion
goes inactive, any new post will "reactivate" the discussion and trigger a new
cooldown period.

-  If it has been 42 days (~6 weeks) since the last message, the cooldown is 7 days.
-  If it has been 90 days (~3 months) since the last message, the cooldown is 14 days.

**************
 Voting Phase
**************

Voting prerequisites
====================

Prior to starting a vote, RFC authors MUST post an Intent to Vote message to

> the discussion thread. The post MUST be made at least two days and no more than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the discussion thread. The post MUST be made at least 2 days and no more than
```
For visibility and consistency with the 7.

been sent earlier, and any Major or Minor changes that result from that feedback
MUST trigger a new cooldown period, canceling the Intent to Vote.

RFC authors MAY start a vote at any time, provided that all the following conditions hold:

-  There is no cooldown period still active.

-  The discussion thread is not inactive.

-  The authors has posted an intent to open the vote at least 2 days prior, and
   no more than 7 days prior.

-  There is no ongoing relevant and substantive discussion still happening in
   the thread. The authors may determine what qualifies as relevant and
   substantive, but SHOULD be liberal in interpreting that.

All voting widgets on the RFC MUST include all relevant details for that vote, as
described in the "Required Majority" section below.

To allow for timezone differences, outside commitments by RFC authors, and other deadlines,
the cutoff timestamp to start a vote has a grace period of 8 hours in either direction.
That is, starting a vote 45 hours after the Intent to Vote has been posted is discouraged, but
allowed.  Similarly, starting the vote 7 days and 3 hours after the Intent to Vote was posted

> is discouraged, but allowed.

Reviewer: This should mention both the “Intent to Vote” and “Cooldown” period. The “Intent to Vote” may already arrive while the “Cooldown” still is in progress and allowing the grace period for the ITV, but not the CD doesn't make sense.

-  A notice if there are multiple votes to cast, as each requires a separate
   form submission.
-  The date and time the vote will end.

The end of the vote MUST additionally be specified in the voting widget on the
RFC so that it will auto-close at the specified timestamp.

The link to the mailing list archives of the voting thread MUST be added to the
RFC as soon as possible and no later than the announcement of the results of the
vote.

The voting period MUST be at least 14 days, but MAY be up to 28 days (e.g.
to avoid conflicts with well-known holiday periods).

Due to the significance of the end-of-year holidays for a majority of the world,
the voting period MUST NOT start and MUST NOT end in the period between
December, 17th 00:00 UTC and January, 10th 00:00 UTC.

After the voting period has started, including after the vote closed and the RFC
is either accepted or declined, there MUST NOT be any further Major or Minor
changes to the RFC text and making editorial changes SHOULD be avoided for the
avoidance of doubt. The voting details (such as the voting period or
interpretation of secondary votes) MUST NOT be changed after the vote opened.

> The voting period MAY be canceled within the first 2 days (48 hours) in case of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The voting period MAY be canceled within the first 2 days in case of
```
no longer necessary to specify.

   change in the implementation, particularly any changes to the proposed
   semantics or syntax, updating the API stub. It also includes adding, changing
   or removing any voting widget.

-  **Minor changes** to the RFC text include adding new examples, updating
   existing examples, adding additional explanation or clarification, or any
   other changes that are not purely editorial.

-  **Editorial changes** to the RFC text include non-substantive changes, such
   as spelling, typos, changing section labels, small rewordings of descriptions,
   and so forth.

If it is unclear what level a change belongs in, the authors SHOULD assume the
higher one.

Major and minor changes MUST be announced in the official discussion thread,
either in a dedicated email summarizing a list of changes or in a reply to
another email that clearly indicates that changes to the RFC text have been made
in response to that email. If a series of changes are included together, the
whole announcement belongs to the highest level of any of the involved changes.
The initial proposal of the RFC is considered a Major change announcement.

Cooldown period
===============

> Both Major and Minor change announcements trigger a "cooldown period" to allow

Reviewer: Should we also capitalize `Cooldown Period` to make it more clear that it is a “special term”?

Cooldowns overlap, so if a Major change is announced, and 3 days later a Minor
change is announced, the vote may be called 11 days (14 - 3) later.

Discussion lifetime
===================

The discussion is not required to go to a vote at any particular point. The
authors MAY continue the discussion as long as they wish. The authors SHOULD
be mindful of holiday periods or periods of significant activity on the mailing
list to allow everyone to catch up with the discussion.

In order to keep RFCs "fresh," their discussion threads must have a minimum
level of activity. Any message to the discussion thread from any participant 
(excluding “Intent to Vote” messages) is sufficient to keep the RFC active. Once an RFC discussion
goes inactive, any new post will "reactivate" the discussion and trigger a new
cooldown period.

-  If it has been 42 days (~6 weeks) since the last message, the cooldown is 7 days.
-  If it has been 90 days (~3 months) since the last message, the cooldown is 14 days.

**************
 Voting Phase
**************

Voting prerequisites
====================

Prior to starting a vote, RFC authors MUST post an Intent to Vote message to

> the discussion thread. The post MUST be made at least 2 days and no more than
> 7 days before the vote is officially opened. Any feedback posted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the discussion thread. The post MUST be made at least 2 days and no more than
7 days before the vote is officially opened (“Intent to Vote lifetime”). Any feedback posted
```

after the Intent to Vote message is sent SHOULD be treated the same as if it had
been sent earlier, and any Major or Minor changes that result from that feedback
MUST trigger a new cooldown period, canceling the Intent to Vote.

RFC authors MAY start a vote at any time, provided that all the following conditions hold:

-  There is no cooldown period still active.

-  The discussion thread is not inactive.

> -  The authors has posted an intent to open the vote at least 2 days prior, and
>    no more than 7 days prior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The current time lies within the Intent to Vote lifetime.
```

-  There is no ongoing relevant and substantive discussion still happening in
   the thread. The authors may determine what qualifies as relevant and
   substantive, but SHOULD be liberal in interpreting that.

All voting widgets on the RFC MUST include all relevant details for that vote, as
described in the "Required Majority" section below.

> To allow for timezone differences, outside commitments by RFC authors, and other deadlines,
> the cutoff timestamp for the cooldown period or to start a vote has a grace period of
> 8 hours in either direction. For example, the following scenarios are allowed, but discouraged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To account for minor calculation errors due to timezone changes,
outside commitments by RFC authors, and others deadlines, RFC
authors MAY use a grace period of up to 8 hours in either direction
without being in violation of the cooldown period and the Intent
to Vote lifetime. RFC authors SHOULD nevertheless strive to
observe the cut-off timestamps as closely as possible.

As an example, all of the following scenarios would be allowed,
but discouraged:
```

Wanted to include the MAY and SHOULD keywords. And also wanted to explicitly spell out the “minor calculation errors” as the primary purpose of the grace period.
